all right hello and welcome to our
February 20th offline local
collaboration group meeting and Jim is
gonna give us a demo of something he's
literally building at this moment so may
or may not work
on top of pure bass so I had demo B that
was working before and let me show the
demo all these little things too many
demos okay so I have a demo at lights
Jim be calm and this is built as a Mali
Asian you should open up lights Jim
pecans in your web browser if it loads
up I think it's a little slow yeah so
there so you must have it so yeah so
yeah I can just see entrance toggled on
there so this is a very I was sort of
building this as perhaps something that
could be a demo or introductory
programming exercise so let's see the
actual source for this one's really
short so it looks this is the whole
they've integrated um pure bass and then
there's a little bit of react in there
and I was experimenting with the new
feature in your act yes called hooks
which makes it integrate something like
this in there really simple and it's the
it's it's built using the create graph
react app built a skeleton app and then
you just modify it and but one of the
things the skeleton app does is it
builds in a serviceworker and you have
to opt into it so and in here this
little comment here if you want
to work offline and load faster you can
change unregistered a register so that's
actually what I'm gonna do except ignore
really just didn't because that's on a
computer London you Muttley okay okay I
deployed it for my machine at home so
I'm like logged in so this is my machine
at home so there that says register and
then what you didn't him run build and
then you wait
it's going to make a lick of
javascript so if I go but this is this
is just a static site with all my file
so I'll to play back to ipfs okay so
let's build so if I go to uni if it's
quickly to do this if I can just I don't
actually tried this on the public
gateway so I just put the fashion
missile b-17 if that works
in the meantime I can try to use IP NS
to deploy it or not I PFS the publishing
we know this friggin so now we're
publishing over IP NS um yeah so if I
can just do if I think you remember it's
just look at the key maybe just lights
touch it I appear this always takes it a
little bit
[Music]
unless I published it from a different
mmm let's take it I could be on the swim
mmm I have to investigate okay see this
one time do you dare me
how's it going doing well we are doing a
like deeper dive on pure pag pure base
and in this one here Steven yes I wasn't
planning to do this live I think the the
thing that we were playing around with
was Jeremy is this little app that Jim
built I just pasted it in the chat which
is kind of like home automation over
here base in this idea of being able to
like make it work offline effectively
and I think there's also like I am my
understanding of the way that you are
thinking of making it work offline was
true things like through service workers
that would do the caching effectively
instead of more the like kind of you
know
peer-to-peer discover discover people on
my local network those buddy I never
used IP and that's when they published
it the previous time stuff that was why
I couldn't find the key pays the service
call does dike now in let see me modify
my DNS really easily
you
okay yes
like Stewie
still in a room this would be quieter
but curious Jeremy what what in offline
world has been tickling your fancy this
past week especially with some amount of
getting a little bit into locations with
mediocre cell reception a little yeah I
think I'm gonna I think it'd be fun to
play around with Bluetooth stuff why yes
there was actually a proposal to kind of
write up the Bluetooth Bluetooth has
kind of an rfp in the lupita peace base
and see whether either someone from the
community or like more you know I don't
know if it's actually doable by in turn
or something like that but it'd be
really cool to I get the impression that
the lid p2p team is super busy right now
and the more that we said yeah how are
that to get done without using their
their time the better yeah agreed
be really nice and it seems like
something that could be done actually
pretty easily yeah I think the thing
that the Jade the IPS team the people
who are looking into it sorry on the PDP
side we're we're like really excited for
it to work with Jas ipfs and like work
with any web browsers and stuff like
that which yeah the web Bluetooth spec
is still not phenomenal I think we
should just get something that works and
worry about javascript later and
something that hopefully works from a
you know it's not painful for me to
connect with Bluetooth peers around me I
don't have to do a lot of like one-off
handshaking with everyone that I want to
pull things to and from yeah ideally but
I bet there's still value in setting up
bluetooth just between like your own set
of devices so like computer
or something like that and that would be
like computer the phone to be really
nice that's kind of what I want yeah
agree with you on that if if you are
interested in you know helping spit out
a high-level RFP of of what we would
want that level of like defining the the
requirements I would happily sit down
and help pound that out yeah maybe I'll
see if at that time materializes
somewhere fair enough fair enough yeah
how you doing Jim shall we um it's using
the service worker I just realized that
the offline toggle toggle in Google
Chrome but you can't it doesn't actually
toggle off WebSockets mmm it's not a
good test we're gonna try it on my phone
and see if it if it uh if it actually
install the Service Worker on my phone
so I mean I guess I could
my internet right now but that would be
a problem this call okay I'm going to
put my phone offline and then tried
talking something and then put it back
online and see what happens
got your plane airplane mode then you're
gonna turn say I'll turned in on okay so
my phone you can't see it but it's like
the den is on on my phone but of course
nobody sees it because offline they go
online it might not sync automatic they
don't know if the logics there I think
that even cooler case is if somehow we
worked yay so they're offline work
offline fashion yeah our CR DT is work
really well with offline things I mean
the next challenge is your phone your
phone and your computer are offline but
but they are connected to each other
yeah so that confirmed to me that I
don't actually have to do any work to
make offline work your pure base so
awesome very cool so what would that
case work for both your phone and
computer offline but they're able to see
each other's state or is it needing to
do any sort of central handshaking here
when they come back online they would
sync up so in terms of making them yeah
meet up with each other can't really do
that from a web browser because web
browsers don't have access to the
network directly if he is like the Lib D
web the Firefox extension that is the
ability isn't using experimental and
multicast DNS but you have to write an
extension that would support that and I
believe that the ipfs companion actually
demoed that working so that would be
sort of interesting to see if that could
work so I'm not sure if that we work
directly with pure pad pure base right
now
sort of fun so if you have multiple
people at a location and they all wanna
and they're all on the same Wi-Fi but
the Wi-Fi scud offer an Internet that
would be sort of interesting exactly I
mean I think that's the offline
collaboration use case that is actually
super super common you know just like we
want to all be in sync here even though
there may be central things out there
but we just want to have things work in
our little sub Network yeah and I'm in
Portland this weekend I'm when met for
coffee with Gazala
or Iraq broccoli is his first name and
he's building he's experimenting with
how to build websites that are able to
talk to ipfs but you don't have to
install the extension or anything so
he's calling it a peer-to-peer
progressive web apps and he has a
project called lunette so that would be
very interesting because he could have
the ipfs extension or ipfs node locally
I could say maybe talk Bluetooth even
and they could find each other that way
I mean if we if we get a Bluetooth
transport for lupiba P sounds like that
would still be a that kind of want her
in there
yeah and I've even seen interesting
projects where you can do like WebRTC
peer-to-peer with any completely
disconnected environment which is not
something you normally do with WebRTC
but they use audio signals for to make
the connection for the signaling so
you'd it would emit some like modem like
old-school modem style sounds and they
somebody you'd have to turn on the
microphone on the other device and it
would hear the sounds I've also seen
like you know like like QR codes that
like flash so they could like have a
like a bi-directional channel so you're
like pointing the camera at two devices
and dearly do a like a signaling channel
that way and then use WebRTC so
that could actually work offline to pass
data between two phones yeah things like
continual like many many many QR codes
all at once yeah something like that
could potentially work inside a
unmodified browser because most browsers
now have web RTC support but the problem
is they can't like make that initial
handshake connection usually without
connection of Internet so there's a sort
of weird hacky ways to do it
I mean I feel like for a phone scanning
a QR code in some sense is is like less
hard like the phone can scan the QR code
the question is like how do you then
continue kind of pulling things from you
know might be what yeah like once they
can establish that WebRTC link then
they're connected so that way that might
actually work so I'll stop this year
I'll see we're going to find the that
one bookmark for that one project yeah
that'd be cool yeah and I think also um
you know chatting more with those ala
about p2p progressive web apps that
sounds very much up our alley and we
should you know learn more about that if
there's a link to that that'd be really
cool to add to the notes okay yeah I
guess like since since we have you you
two on this call so we have people who
have thought a lot about pure bass and
like the library with which we make it
easy to kind of do the underlying
fundamentals of building up a
distributed app that's kind of you know
central it's fully peer-to-peer like
there isn't a central node that's doing
this and you can collaborate on it
offline and they've Jeremy who's like
thought about a lot of the stuff in this
space also kind of from like the Limpy
Depew perspective the ipfs perspective
of like what are the fundamentals that
we need like what are what are your
guys's thoughts on like the the biggest
pain points right now for ipfs in the
like offline space like
is the biggest pain point that like
we're missing this transport let p2p or
there are some other even bigger ones
that we should be focusing on
I think one thing is making making an
IPS that works and is resolvable with
just over like LAN so like I should go
through whole IP NS records from people
around me and be able to see that I
think that would be a really useful like
really really useful thing there and I
think the like the pub/sub IP NS pub/sub
might help here but it's unclear like
yeah so that being able to advertise
some data that about myself to people
around me it would be really useful so
that's like um effectively I'm
advertising my personal website to the
people around me and effectively
publishing to anyone who's who's
listening more IP NS links like what
what that is or yeah just media's case
like the ideas like I have some some
data that I want to associate with
myself
maybe it's like my website or some like
you know list of interesting things or
something like that and if I'm around
people I think they should be able to
discover that if it's like my public web
page it's like you know some 1:1 vision
of an ideal world is like everybody has
their own you know web page where they
have information about themselves and
whatever anything they want to share and
if I'm around that person should be
really easy to see see that and pull
that and so that
kind of one use case they pretty I think
would be pretty cool that's kind of hard
right now that's kind of what's imagine
the case it sounds like probably if it's
it's gonna be like local here and local
publishing around me all the time it's
probably a phone right because our
computers are not necessarily open
around us all the time this is I have
some some content cache offline on my
phone that I'm constantly advertising to
anyone around me who's constantly
listening and I have some way of viewing
that advertised content
it could be that I mean computers also
could work like I lost of business
situations where I have my computer and
just kind of hanging out and I would use
my computer more if there was something
to do with it offline you know that's
fair like chat if there was a nice easy
offline chat the chat to people around
me so effectively like orbit yeah
cuddles I like the initial handshake to
connect you to peers right
that was kind of you had to like
pre-connected and then going offline and
coming back online like that would work
really well but like the initial
connection seems to be like the painful
part here for everything it's like how
do i missile handshake how do we
initially get connected because right
now kind of the centralized method of
finding peers is just a lot faster
what about you Jim from your perspective
the thing that we should be focusing on
most in this thing yeah I think that
yeah correctly he's that actually this
is part of his a vision for the Lynette
project that he's working on - is he was
talking about like being able just to
have like the social network sort of
appear when you're in the coffee shop
and be able to sort of like ear drop on
steroids so in habit not just work on
Apple devices but you know yeah I don't
know if he's thinking completely of the
like off I think I think he is thinking
of offline but like just basically be
able to quickly share in the coffee
shops yeah I think local first is like
it's a layer on offline where like
offline is the extreme case which is
super common for many many many groups
but even more common is like yes there
is internet but the internet had you
know I don't want to be sending like all
of these videos that I took last week
over my terrible terrible coffee shop
internet like I just want him to go to
you let's do this local first even if
there is like some bandwidth somewhere
and at the coffee shop yesterday I was
basically offline for a good 15 minutes
cuz internet wasn't work me is gonna
show my camos yeah super super common so
yeah I I do get the impression that once
we have peer discovery really an
impaired connection like it seems like
the basics of ipfs worked really well in
that case like ones I'm already
connected to appear like everything
works really effectively it's the the
finding the peer making the connection
figuring out the transport layer and
then then building map on top is it's
kind of our bread and butter
you know and I think we're you're making
said because we have you know the IP
pass and web browsers group and they
already are working on things like IP FS
desktop than that so even if the browser
doesn't support it it'd be like hey you
can run some native application on your
web on your operating system which can
go talk to the thing concocted the
network a mobile phones you're probably
looking into mobile apps so that might
be something that might be difficult to
do like like talk to the Bluetooth stack
and things
right from your web browser but then you
know I think if I should work inside
apps as well so like this sort of the
work textile is doing so those sort of
applications would have no limitations
on in terms of using the communication
hardware on the phone yeah I have seen a
couple of apps that are like effectively
running ipfs nodes inside like um sweet
ipfs I don't know if any of you guys
have played around with that but it's
just yeah it's an app on Android that is
a it's like an IP FS node inside of an
app and you can just run it's like a CLI
you can run basic IP of s commands
within within the app and they're kind
of like adding more commands over time I
think right now they have like ad and
pin maybe and like that's about it but
they're I think they're adding more so
that's kind of fun I don't know if
textile actually runs ipfs nodes within
the textile mobile app yeah they do
there's a thing I wrote a little while
ago so this is a project I worked on in
some free time that I found that is it
it builds a native iOS transport and
then plugs it into a cross-compiled go
with the p2p that runs on an iPhone
right so this yeah really cool
the ideas it's like the same library
also does bluetooth and then so I was
gonna move towards being able to use
this method to plug in a Bluetooth
transport into go lupita PE on iOS which
means we don't have to rewrite all the
rest of the p2p for iOS it just like
that piece it's a little tricky but
mostly works so cross compiling what
does this go limb p2p to like Swift or
something
it actually compiles it to native to
like a native thing and then has
bindings to it
yeah exciting did it did it ever work or
was it yeah oh it worked I was able to
like ping like in bootstrap nodes and
stuff so yeah it does the thing but it
needs needs more work and then I also
need to figure out yeah I need to figure
out how it all works
all the Bluetooth works yeah I mean
probably hear you you still have to make
like Bluetooth handshake things where is
like the nice thing about ble is kind of
past that data
cuz it's smaller without having to do
more Bluetooth cam shaky stuff yeah I
don't know exactly how it would work I
think like and everything that supports
bluetooth is going to support ble
everything that supports polluting
supports ble I mean it's like it's the
same library under hood I can cost the
same system just wit
okay just effectively sending the
initial packet of data along with
Windows itself you just you just have to
write the code differently to work that
way
yeah well this is cool I like this idea
and I think something probably that
maybe the Lim PEP team hasn't seemed so
could be interesting for them to be
aware of its existence
I shared it with Mike before okay so I
know that I'm I think Vasco on the
Lapita B team was looking into bluetooth
and was it was interested about mobile
but also was like I don't know how
doable this is but more and more people
are running IP of us know it's inside
mobile apps so my impression is that's
getting quickly into the realm of the
not just possible but like actively used
by many many groups yeah and so most
people are just compiling go Luka DP to
iOS directly and then using the goes tcp
libraries that are then being
cross-compiled
to iOS but this thing I'm working on
uses in iOS native TCP stack which means
that it's it it better respects the
operating system so it has like iOS uses
this Grand Central Dispatch thing where
everything works through this big main
queue and it allows the phone to be like
battery saving and smart about stuff and
anything that doesn't respect that iOS
has a tendency to just kill when it's
misty Hanna and so this actually
respects that and has less chance of
being killed that's useful yeah there
may be something I could hook in like I
because the demo I just showed was a
really trivial react program that it was
pretty good support for react native so
I could but then I'd be figuring out how
to yeah the Lib p2p running in the
JavaScript virtual machine yeah it you
wouldn't run it talked to the iOS a that
did be some like need of bridging
involved yeah it's probably just a
little shim code has to get in yeah and
then do you know how the react native
talks to native reckon ativ talks to
like the actual native code are there
like it's just call type things you can
make got into that the
they run yeah they run a JavaScript
virtual machine and then the JavaScript
will have the interface to the to the
seat you know see native for the
unwitting system level and so I am
pretty sure that's pretty well figured
or documented in the rack neo community
got it so that's that's one option
there's people do phone gap is another
way we can run like a web page and I
love you
and then yeah friend of mine works for
Expo and they like develop react native
stuff I think you would probably know
this a little better more than me really
common as well we're just like really
I'm really just running a wealthy under
the hood but um but it looks super
native II because it's been you know
mobile optimized from a design
perspective yeah yeah I spent several
years building these sort of apps for
clients it's really nice to have like
like native level they build everything
completely native but you know people
have to target ios and android and
there's a lot of cross-platform
frameworks available for my demo because
it uses pure pad and or peer base and
pure base is written in javascript
you're obviously limited to somewhere
that can run JavaScript yep although it
would be possible to port the the C or D
T's and things that are I think that'd
be really neat to like port the CEO
duties that are in pure base and make
like feel like a native Swift version
and that you need a Java or Kotlin
version to to target those communities I
think that would if not paired with some
really nice like full-on native support
I mean you could even go as far as to
write me right limb p2p and Swift or
something that might be a bit crazy a
bit but he did bit by
bit because yeah I don't think you need
that rewrite yeah you don't need to redo
it rewrite I think it's actually
unnecessary just being able to write the
transports natively as should be really
good mm-hmm native transports I've
gotten back to like local pure discovery
and transports the better support you
know like more local forms of
communication like was its multicast
and Bluetooth and such interesting thing
with phones is they have two radios
right you have the Wi-Fi radio and then
so when you're building the discovery
mechanism you know you have more than
more than one option there and you might
need the discovery with one radio and
then do your communication with the
other radio
like if there's a Wi-Fi access point in
the coffee shop you get to talk to each
other I just can't get out the internet
cuz this the DSL line is down or
something I mean it's also I've
definitely seen apps that do initial
kind of discovery over Bluetooth and
then construct like an ad-hoc Wi-Fi like
hot spot to to communicate over like
that's also super common I bet yeah I
bet computers are also decently good at
doing that if you have here your Wi-Fi
turned on you could do Bluetooth
discovery and then actually send stuff
over like kind of local Wi-Fi hotspot
yeah like the the scenario is like it's
a bunch of people traveling on the plane
together and they just wanted to swap
files Jetta speaking they literally did
that literally wanted to do that one and
I did that we used orbit to chat on a
plane was that using like local Wi-Fi
that you'd pre-configured or what no we
just
like a local hot spot a tiny connectin
yeah that well it works pretty well was
that they used a slippy tepee to orbit
desert did they use go nose go yeah if
you had to do the ipfs swarm ad know it
Otto figured it at Auto phone each other
okay yep yeah you just run a minute the
nd nice stuff I think normally we would
and end our meeting with any cool things
you've seen from around the ecosystem of
you know people who are doing cool stuff
in this space or who we should go talk
to you next so and you guys have have
thoughts I think hmm no I don't really
finding somebody who's good at like
Bluetooth programming would be if some I
don't even know where to go about
looking for those people that's good
question I know bunch of them in making
goods like I sort of came from that sort
of app development area I think I want
to talk more with textile and see what
they're doing and Carson who works there
he's actually based close to me in
Victoria so have to take a ferry but
it's not too far Victoria is beautiful
worth of is it anyway I think the that's
been cool so I definitely I know there
some work that karissa from Digital
democracy was was on the call last month
and was showing some of the work that
they've been doing around kind of
offline collaborative mapping and took
these communities that spend a lot of
time offline that's another kind of cool
case of I think they're mostly using
that though they've expressed some more
interest in ipfs recently to like do
that kind of progressive syncing as you
have kind of more and more stuff mapped
offline and then you kind of connect and
you sync back to the rest of the
networks but most of the time you're
just collaborating with the people
around you to do that mapping fully
locally that's another cool one
cool
well if there's any other cool things in
the ecosystem that pop up shout and I
think in the meantime we'll what kind of
push a little bit and see if we gem do
if there's anyone who comes to mind in
kind of bluetooth expertise crossed with
kind of more the the peer-to-peer space
would would love to talk to more people
about getting that sort of expertise
into our community okay cool yeah I
wanna try and at some point maybe not
even buy the next time we talk look more
into Bluetooth stuff myself yeah I know
that there is a an issue which I'll a
plus in here from like lid p2p team
where they were doing some kind of like
research and experiments but I think it
was much more around like what Bluetooth
instead of the like very baseline what
would be like MVP a prototype level
Bluetooth support for Olympia P ha well
let's let's take the you know remaining
whatever 12 minutes of our of our day
back and so I'm gonna do the cool stuff
and I'll see you guys next month that's
the next local offline collab meeting
cool